Eris - Fully automatic Lua↔C bridge using DWARF
===============================================

Eris is a fully automatic, run-time, fast binding generator for native
C libraries. It allows using existing libraries directly from
[Lua](http://www.lua.org). Eris uses the [DWARF](http://dwarfstd.org/)
debugging information generated by C compilers.

Eris is licensed under a [MIT-style](http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php)
license, see `LICENSE` for the full text.

Compatibility
-------------

Eris is tested and compatible with:

* Lua 5.3


Building
--------

Building Eris requires the following dependencies:

* A reasonable POSIX-ish operating system. Development is done using
  GNU/Linux, other systems might work (YMMV).
* `libdwarf`, version `20140805` (or newer).
* `libelf`, version `0.161` (or newer).
* [Ninja](http://martine.github.com/ninja/) (preferred), or GNU Make.
* *(Optional)* GNU `readline`.

Though GNU Auto*foo* is not used, care has been taken in following its
conventions, so in order to build Eris the following will work:

```sh
./configure
make
```

Or, using Ninja to do the build (preferred):

```sh
./configure
ninja
```

Once building has finished, it is possible to check that everything
is working fine by running the test suite:

```sh
./run-tests
```


Usage
-----

Once built, the `eris` module can be used from Lua:

```lua
-- Find and load the readline library from the standard system directories.
local libreadline = require("eris").load("libreadline")

-- Obtain a handle to the readline() function, which allows calling it.
local readline = libreadline.readline

-- Read a line from standard input using readline() and echo it back.
print(readline("input: "))
```

For more examples, check the the `samples/` subdirectory. Documentation
is available under the `doc/` subdirectory. Run your favourite Markdown
processor on it to read the documentation in HTML.


Examples
--------

Usage examples can be found in the `examples/` subdirectory.

Some of the examples use third-party code, which needs to be built
from sources. The needed sources are referenced from the repository as Git
submodules, and the exact needed version will be fetched automatically.
Note that the examples can only be built with Ninja at the moment:

```sh
git submodule update --recursive
ninja examples
```

Additional dependencies for the examples:

* OpenGL ES 2 (`libGLESv2` from Mesa will do).
* GLFW3
